uh well well what devlin argued is that
i mean this
he was actually
critiquing the notion that capitalism is
really about production and he said
there really is a continuation of
feudalism in a sense because
it's it's the conspicuous display of
non-useful things and that's why gold
and silver and diamonds uh became so
valuable it's just because of their
useless they're shiny toys uh so so it's
just showing that you transcend the
domain of the useful um
and you show off that you can do so it's
a way that like uh
uh ancient lord would go not to
sacrifice and not just throw a feast but
you know make so much food that no one
could possibly eat at all just kill
animals with reckless abandon
um
and
his argument is that this is still
ultimately what capitalism is about uh
it's never really been about production
that's in industry is really
something that has developed
independently the capitalist claim
credit for it but
in fact profits are gained by the
sabotage of the process of production
and um
it's guided into this domain
of of
crazy consumption for its own sake but
that crazy consumption becomes
popularized so that everybody ends up
you know doing
smaller and smaller scale versions of
the of conspicuous waste
so we're all like little quacky lords
pot watching he was actually into
anthropology even though he started
1890s on anthropology that he had at his
disposal wasn't very good he already
picked up on the idea that um
what people are doing in a lot of
societies is intention equivalent of
intentionally throwing stuff away but
it's throwing stuff away
in a way that's intended to
or display your superiority the ultimate
gesture where people like nero or a lot
of the roman emperors would do things
like they would take handfuls of
diamonds and
throw them into the audience during um
during the chariot races or gladiatorial
games or other celebrations and just to
watch people like sort of scrabble or
scramble and
knock each other down you know
get into fights to grab the diamonds uh
and it's a way it's the ultimate poison
gift it's a way of
saying
i don't even care about these things i
am a higher sort of being than you could
ever imagine